docs(www): Managing Pull Requests (#14763)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/contributing/managing-pull-requests.md

---
title: Managing Pull Requests
---

## Pull Requests and the Community

> Gatsby is an open source project. We have over 2,000 contributors and so much of what makes Gatsby great is contributed by folks like you!

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this section is necessary... we should have some kind of intro though. Maybe replace this with a section describing who this doc is for and what you'll learn by reading it?

learnings could be something like - learn how to review changes being submitted to Gatsby or how your own contributions will be reviewed

Let's talk a little about how we manage pull requests in the Gatsby repo!

## What is a Pull Request?

In case you aren't familiar, here is how the fine folks at GitHub [define a pull request](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-requests):

> Pull requests let you tell others about changes you've pushed to a branch in a repository on GitHub. Once a pull request is opened, you can discuss and review the potential changes with collaborators and add follow-up commits before your changes are merged into the base branch.

Simply put, when someone wants to contribute to Gatsby, they open a request to _pull_ their code into ours. Depending on the type of change, we like to categorise pull requests (or PRs for short) into:

- Documentation
- Code
- Starters or Site Showcase
- Blog posts

When looking at a PR for the first time, it can help to read up on linked issues or RFCs (if there are any) to gain context on what the PR intends to add or fix.

> 💡If there isn't already an issue that describes the problem a PR is trying to solve, it can be helpful to open one. This helps in sharing context and can be very valuable in the future.

> Each kind of PR requires a different set of checks from us before they are merged in!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each kind of PR requires a different set of checks from us before they are merged in.
```

Reviewer: These are all outdated but still valid suggestions. You could find and replace all `!` for `.` and then add _one_ back in where it's most needed 😄 ❗️

Author: I see what you did there with the _one_ 😉

Let's go over them real quick.

### Documentation

We typically look for the following in PRs that add documentation:

- Correctness — whether the added documentation is technically correct
- Style — whether the written language follows our [style guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/)

### Code

For PRs that add code (whether a feature or fix), we look for the following:

- Correctness — whether the code does what we think it does
- Tests — when fixing a bug or adding a new feature, it can be very valuable to add tests. While we do merge some small PRs without them, more often than not, it's good to have tests asserting behaviour! This can be a combination of unit tests for the specific package, snapshot tests and end to end tests. The goal here is to ensure that something that is being fixed or added _remains_ fixed or working the way we expect it to. Good tests ensure this!

> - Code Quality — while it isn't good to nit pick, reasonable changes that improve readability are great to point out.

Reviewer 2: Would "Code readability" fit better (instead of Code Quality)?

And reason for that is the code is being read much more often than it's being written, so making sure it's easily digestible is big priority

Reviewer 3: I don't think code readability is what we should strive for. I think the "Code Quality" label is good, but the description should be changed. How about:

> focus on reasonable changes that will likely make code maintenance, comprehension, or correctness improved or more obvious

(tweak as needed!)

### Nice to have

- PRs get squashed so individual commit messages are not important (but helpful anyway) but do this to [https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.3/](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.3/)))

## Giving Feedback

- Be kind/nice/empathetic
- Suggest using GitHub suggestions if possible (super easy to commit, you can batch them)
- Point to links/examples if possible
- Maintain context and scope (try not to bike shed too much)
- Note when something is optional/required
- Be objective and limit nitpicks (a few are fine if they add value or improve quality)

## Rights and Permissions

- When can you review? Should people comment on PRs that are WIP/Draft
  - Marcy thinks having a go ahead from the author is a good thing to wait for
  - [ ] Add details about being invited after your first contribution and what that allows one to do
  - [ ] Talk to the Core Team
- Who can review?
  - Everyone!
- Who can approve/merge?
  - CODEOWNERS / core team

## Gotchas

> - While it's nice to help out and fix merge conflicts or linting issues, you might not be able to push to the author's fork and that's okay!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- While it's nice to help out and fix merge conflicts or linting issues, you might not be able to push to the author's fork and that's okay.
```

## Frequently Asked Questions

> None at the moment but if you have one, add it here!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
None at the moment but if you have one, add it here.
```

Needless to say, we get a lot of PRs and we've been merging over a [100 contributions](https://twitter.com/kylemathews/status/1111435640581689345) every week. Yes, _every week_.

Let's talk a little about how we manage pull requests in the Gatsby repo.

## What is a Pull Request?

In case you aren't familiar, here is how the fine folks at GitHub [define a pull request](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-requests):

> Pull requests let you tell others about changes you've pushed to a branch in a repository on GitHub. Once a pull request is opened, you can discuss and review the potential changes with collaborators and add follow-up commits before your changes are merged into the base branch.

Simply put, when someone wants to contribute to Gatsby, they open a request to _pull_ their code into ours. Depending on the type of change, we like to categorise pull requests (or PRs for short) into:

- Documentation
- Code
- Starters or Site Showcase
- Blog posts

When looking at a PR for the first time, it can help to read up on linked issues or RFCs (if there are any) to gain context on what the PR intends to add or fix.

> > 💡 If there isn't already an issue that describes the problem a PR is trying to solve, it can be helpful to open one. This helps in sharing context and can be very valuable in the future.

Reviewer: I don't think I agree with this. In many (most?) cases it's useful to open an issue before creating a PR.
 
But if there's an open PR that doesn't have a related issue, discussion typically happens on the PR itself. I can't think of an example where retroactively opening an issue would be useful.

Author: This makes sense! Updating

## Verifying a Pull Request

### General Guidelines

Some general things to verify in a pull request are:

> - Links ought to be relative

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Links ought to be relative instead of absolute when linking to docs (`/docs/some-reference` instead of `https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/some-reference`)
```

Not sure there would be another use case besides linking to docs, but I think a little example could help 🙂

- Language ought to be inclusive and accessible

### Type Specific Guidelines

Each kind of PR also requires a different set of specific checks from us before they are merged in!

> Let's go over them real quick.

Reviewer: Slightly too casual? Yes I'm a nitpick too :) 

```suggestion
Let's review them below.
```

Author: But I like the casual style! 😛

Reviewer 5: Since "quick" is relative, we could split the difference with `Let's go over them below.`

#### Documentation

We typically look for the following in PRs that add documentation:

- Correctness — whether the added documentation is technically correct

> - Style — whether the written language follows our [style guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Style — whether the written language follows our [style guide](/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/)
```

Goes along with the advice to use relative links above

#### Code

For PRs that add code (whether a feature or fix), we look for the following:

- Correctness — whether the code does what we think it does

> - Tests — when fixing a bug or adding a new feature, it can be very valuable to add tests. While we do merge some small PRs without them, more often than not, it's good to have tests asserting behaviour! This can be a combination of unit tests for the specific package, snapshot tests and end to end tests. The goal here is to ensure that something that is being fixed or added _remains_ fixed or working the way we expect it to. Good tests ensure this!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Tests — when fixing a bug or adding a new feature, it can be very valuable to add tests. While we do merge some small PRs without them, more often than not, it's good to have tests asserting behaviour! This can be a combination of unit tests for the specific package, snapshot tests, and end to end tests. The goal here is to ensure that something that is being fixed or added _remains_ fixed or working the way we expect it to. Good tests ensure this!
```

The style guide says use the Oxford comma so I guess I'll be nitpicky here 😬

Author: I love Oxford commas! Thank you

> - Code Quality — while it isn't good to nit pick, reasonable changes that improve readability are great to point out

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Code Quality — while it isn't good to nitpick, reasonable changes that improve readability are great to point out
```

Nitpick level 💯

Reviewer 5: You could mention Prettier does some of the work too...?

- Documentation in the package's README if you're adding something

#### Starters or Site Showcase

For PRs that add a site or a starter to the showcase, we ought to check:

> - We check if the site or starter is indeed a Gatsby site or starter respectively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check if the site or starter is built with Gatsby
```

- Links — check if the links are working and accessible

> - Tags — ensure the tags are not arbitrary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tags — ensure the tags match existing tags
```

> - Featured Status — for the site showcase, we like to default to _not_ featuring a site and typically someone from the Gatsby team features it later if they like!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Featured Status — new sites should not be marked as featured. Featured sites are occasionally updated by a member of the Gatsby team 
```

#### Blog posts

> For PRs that add a blog posts, we ought to check:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For PRs that add a blog post, we ought to check:
```

- Correctness — whether the added documentation is technically correct

> - Style — whether the written language follows our [style guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Style — whether the written language follows our [style guide](/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/)
```

> - Blog posts are similar to documentation in that they're long form writing, but also want to ensure that blog posts on [gatsbyjs.org](https://www.gatsbyjs.org) aren't purely promotional, spammy or inappropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Subject matter - blog posts should not be purely promotional, spammy, or inappropriate. An author should check with a member of the Gatsby team that their post is appropriate for the Gatsby blog before creating their pull request.
```

Reviewer 5: One thing you could add is that blog posts are more time dependent than docs, especially since they get buried after more posts are published. If something is continually relevant and more of a general how-to, it should probably go in the docs "reference guides".

Author: Done and done!

## Automated Checks

> Our repository on [GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby) has several automated CI checks that are run automatically for all PRs. These include tests, linting and even preview builds [gatsbyjs.org](https://www.gatsbyjs.org).

Reviewer 4: I'm not really sure what the link to .org is here for?

Author: I meant preview builds for .org but forgot to add the word _for_

Fixed!

> We want all of these checks to pass. While it's okay to review a work in progress PR with some failed checks, a PR is only ready to ship when everything is green.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want all of these checks to pass. While it's okay to review a work in progress PR with some failed checks, a PR is only ready to ship when all the tests have passed.
```

> Let's go over some common failure cases in our cases and how to approach fixing them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's go over some common failure cases and how to fix them:
```

### Linting

> We lint all code and documentation pretty aggressively (consistency is good) and while that is great, you might find some PRs failing the linting check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We lint all code and documentation for consistency. You might find that your PR fails on the linting check.
```

> An easy fix for this is to run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this is your PR and you have the code checked out on your machine, you can run:
```

> 💡 npm run format

> This will format all code and documentation and should get rid of those pesky linting issues!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will automatically re-format your changes to match the linting requirements. Don't forget to git commit and push your new changes.
```

## Other Checks

### Testing Locally

> While we have many _many_ tests in our repository (that are run automatically on every commit), there can be times when there exists an edge case (or five) that isn't covered by these.

Reviewer 4: Edge case or five 😆 nothing to change here, just good touch haha

In situations like this, testing the change locally can be very valuable.

> > 💡 In case this is the first time you're doing this, you might have to [set up your development environment](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> 💡 In case this is the first time you're doing this, you might have to [set up your development environment](/contributing/setting-up-your-local-dev-environment).
```

Testing out unpublished packages locally can be tricky. We have just the tool to make that easy for you.

Say hello to your new best friend, `gatsby-dev-cli`.

#### gatsby-dev-cli

`gatsby-dev-cli` is a command-line tool for local Gatsby development. When making changes in gatsby packages, this helps copy changes in the packages to a Gatsby site that you can test your changes on.

> Learn more about `gatsby-dev-cli` [here](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/gatsby-dev-cli)!

Reviewer: Use descriptive link text

```suggestion
[Check the `gatsby-dev-cli` readme to learn more](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/packages/gatsby-dev-cli).
```

### Commit and PR Title

It's good to have descriptive commit messages so that other folks can make sense of what your commit is doing. We like [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.3).

However, PRs get squashed when merged into our repository so individual commit messages are not as important as PR titles.

Let's look at some examples of good and bad PR titles:

> #### Good PR Titles ✅

Reviewer: Explain what's good about these titles?

- chore(docs): Fix links in contributing page
- feat(gatsby): Add support for per page manifests
- fix(gatsby-plugin-sharp): Ensure images exist before attempting conversion

> #### Bad PR Titles ❌

Reviewer: And what's bad about these ones.

- new tests
- add support for my new cms
- fix bug in gatsby

## Giving Feedback

> - Be _nice_. We're stronger everyday because of our community so empathy is important and we want our contributors to feel welcome.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Be _kind_. We're stronger every day because of our community, so compassion is important. We want all contributors to feel welcome.
```

- Make suggestions using [GitHub's suggestions feature](https://help.github.com/en/articles/commenting-on-a-pull-request#adding-line-comments-to-a-pull-request) if possible. This makes accepting your suggestions easier for the author.
- Link to examples when necessary
- Try not to [bikeshed](http://bikeshed.com/) too much
- Note when a suggestion is optional (as opposed to required)

> - Be objective and limit nitpicks (a few are fine if they add value or improve code readability)

Reviewer 5: Should we add anything about understanding when something is out of scope and best in a separate PR?

## Rights and Permissions

### Who can review a PR?

> If you're a member of the [gatsbyjs](http://github.com/gatsbyjs) organisation on GitHub, you can review a PR.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you're a member of the [gatsbyjs](http://github.com/gatsbyjs) organization on GitHub, you can review a PR.
```

> > 💡 Not a member yet? Love us and want to help? Make your first contribution and get invited!

Reviewer: Ok this is exciting. Valid ❗️usage 😄 
```suggestion
> 💡 Not a member yet? Want to get involved in contributing to open source projects? Make your first contribution and you'll be invited automatically!
```

### Who can approve a PR?

> Every PR opened in the repository needs to be approved before it can be merged. While anyone who is a member of the [gatsbyjs](http://github.com/gatsbyjs) organisation can approve a PR, to be merged in, it needs to be reviewed by a member of the team that owns that part of Gatsby.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Every PR opened in the repository needs to be approved before it can be merged. While anyone who is a member of the [gatsbyjs](http://github.com/gatsbyjs) organization can approve a PR, to be merged in, it needs to be reviewed by a member of the team that owns that part of Gatsby.
```

Typically this is:

- **gatsbyjs/core** for Code
- **gatsbyjs/docs** for Documentation

We also have `CODEOWNERS` set on different parts of the repo and an approval by someone in the `CODEOWNERS` for the file(s) the PR is changing can also suffice.

### Who can merge a PR?

PRs can only be merged by members of the core team and Gatsbot.

#### Gatsbot

Gatsbot is our little android friend that automatically merges PRs that are ready to go. If a PR is approved and all checks are passing, add the `bot: merge on green` label and Gatsbot will merge it in automatically!

## Gotchas

> - You might not always be able to push to an author's fork (depending on their settings). In such a case, leave suggestions.

Reviewer: Maybe explain this in a bit more detail or drop it completely?

Reviewer: Could drop the Gotchas section completely?

Author: Updated with more detail!

---
title: Managing Pull Requests
---

## Introduction

> If you'd like to help out managing PRs on the gatsby repo on GitHub, this document is for you. We'll go over conventions we prefer, what we like to check for on various types of pull requests, permissions and guidelines on how to leave feedback.

Reviewer 5: One thing I just noticed is that this doc deviates from the recommended "you" and "you're" style that we recommend in docs to focus on the reader. But in this instance, managing PRs is very much reliant on the core team's guidance and permissions, so I think it's fine. But something to keep in mind for future docs!

- Documentation
- Code
- Starters or Site Showcase
- Blog posts

When looking at a PR for the first time, it can help to read up on linked issues or RFCs (if there are any) to gain context on what the PR intends to add or fix.

> 💡 We typically recommend opening an issue before a PR if there isn't already an issue for the problem you'd like to solve. This helps facilitate a discussion before deciding on an implementation.

## Verifying a Pull Request

### General Guidelines

Some general things to verify in a pull request are:

- Links ought to be relative instead of absolute when linking to docs (`/docs/some-reference` instead of `https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/some-reference`)
- Language ought to be inclusive and accessible
- Issues and RFCs (if any) that this PR addresses ought to be linked to

### Type Specific Guidelines

Each kind of PR also requires a different set of specific checks from us before they are merged in.

Let's go over them real quick.

#### Documentation

We typically look for the following in PRs that add documentation:

- Correctness — whether the added documentation is technically correct

> - Style — whether the written language follows our [style guide](/contributing/gatsby-style-guide/)

Reviewer 5: Something we have to correct a lot is the heading level. We could add a line here with:

`- Headings – whether the heading levels start with h2 (## in Markdown) and grow in order, establishing an accessible content hierarchy`

Reviewer 5: We could also point people to the contributing docs: 

`– Type & Format – whether docs and learning materials align with our recommendations for [docs contributions](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/contributing/docs-contributions/)

Reviewer 5: I made these changes directly in the doc! 👍

#### Code

> For PRs that add code (whether a feature or fix), we look for the following:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For [PRs that add code](/contributing/code-contributions/) (whether a feature or fix), we look for the following:
```

- Subject matter — blog posts should not be purely promotional, spammy, or inappropriate. An author should check with a member of the Gatsby team that their post is appropriate for the blog before creating their PR.
- Time Sensitivity — blog posts are more time dependent than docs, especially since they get buried after more posts are published. If something is continually relevant and more of a general how-to, it should probably go in the [Reference Guides](/docs/guides/) section of the docs.

## Automated Checks

Our repository on [GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby) has several automated CI checks that are run automatically for all PRs. These include tests, linting and even preview builds for [gatsbyjs.org](https://www.gatsbyjs.org).

We want all of these checks to pass. While it's okay to review a work in progress PR with some failed checks, a PR is only ready to ship when all the tests have passed.

Let's go over some common failure cases and how to fix them:

### Linting

We lint all code and documentation for consistency. You might find that your PR fails on the linting check.

If this is your PR and you have the code checked out on your machine, you can run:

> > 💡 npm run format

Reviewer 5: While fun, I wonder if the lightbulb will confuse people at all. Perhaps it should be marked up as a bash code snippet?

```bash
npm run format
```
